[Messenger] Multiple failed transports (#15177)
symfony/symfony-docs: messenger.rst

due to the normal :ref:`retry rules <messenger-retries-failures>`. Once the max
retry has been hit, the message will be discarded permanently.

> Multiple failed transports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple Failed Transports
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Sometimes it is not enough to have a single, global ``failed transport`` configured because 
> some messages are more important than others. In those cases, you can override the failure transport for only specific transports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it is not enough to have a single, global ``failed transport`` configured
because some messages are more important than others. In those cases, you can
override the failure transport for only specific transports:
```

            'messenger' => [
                // after retrying, messages will be sent to the "failed" transport 
                // by default if no "failure_transport" is configured inside a transport
                'failure_transport' => 'failed_default',

                'transports' => [
                    'async_priority_high' => [
                        'dsn' => '%env(MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_DSN)%',
                        'failure_transport' => 'failed_high_priority'
                    ],
                    // since no failed transport is configured, the one used will be
                    // the global failure_transport set 
                    'async_priority_low' => [
                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=async_priority_low',
                    ],
                    'failed_default' => [
                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=failed_default',
                    ],
                    'failed_high_priority' => [
                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=failed_high_priority',
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ]);

> If there is no ``failure_transport`` defined globally or on the transport level, the messages
> will be discarded after the number of retries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no ``failure_transport`` defined globally or on the transport level,
the messages will be discarded after the number of retries.
```

> The failed commands have an optional option `--transport`` to specify the ``failure_transport`` configured at the transport level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The failed commands have an optional option ``--transport`` to specify
the ``failure_transport`` configured at the transport level.
```

                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=async_priority_low',
                    ],
                    'failed_default' => [
                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=failed_default',
                    ],
                    'failed_high_priority' => [
                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=failed_high_priority',
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ]);

If there is no ``failure_transport`` defined globally or on the transport level,
the messages will be discarded after the number of retries.

The failed commands have an optional option ``--transport`` to specify
the ``failure_transport`` configured at the transport level.

.. code-block:: terminal

    # see all messages in "failure_transport" transport
    $ php bin/console messenger:failed:show --transport=failure_transport

    # retry specific messages from "failure_transport"
    $ php bin/console messenger:failed:retry 20 30 --transport=failure_transport --force

    # remove a message without retrying it from "failure_transport"
    $ php bin/console messenger:failed:remove 20 --transport=failure_transport

> 

Reviewer: Please add:

```rst
.. versionadded:: 5.3

    The possibility to use multiple failed transports was introduced in Symfony 5.3.
```

Thanks

due to the normal :ref:`retry rules <messenger-retries-failures>`. Once the max
retry has been hit, the message will be discarded permanently.

Multiple failed transports

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: The length of the `~~~` should match the length of the title above.

> Sometimes is not enough having one single global ``failed transport`` configured because 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes it is not enough to have a single, global ``failed transport`` configured because 
```

> Sometimes is not enough having one single global ``failed transport`` configured because 

Reviewer 2: Above this line, we need a `versionadded`. Search for that in the docs to see an example.

> some messages are more important than others:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
some messages are more important than others. In those cases, you can
override the failure transport for only specific transports:
```

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/packages/messenger.yaml
        framework:
            messenger:
                # after retrying, messages will be sent to the "failed" transport 
                # by default if no "failed_transport" is configured inside a transport 
                failure_transport: failed

                transports:
                    async_priority_high:
                        dsn: '%env(MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_DSN)%'

>                         failure_transport: failed

Reviewer 2: This is pointing to the default - it should point to the OTHER failure transport i think

                    # since no failed transport is configured, the one used will be
                    # the global "failed_transport" set
                    async_priority_low:
                        dsn: 'doctrine://default?queue_name=async_priority_low'

                    failed: 'doctrine://default?queue_name=failed'

>                     failed_other: 'doctrine://default?queue_name=failed_other' 

Reviewer 2: How about we call these `failed_default` and `failed_high_priority`?

                </framework:messenger>
            </framework:config>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/packages/messenger.php
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', [
            'messenger' => [
                // after retrying, messages will be sent to the "failed" transport 
                // by default if no "failure_transport" is configured inside a transport
                'failure_transport' => 'failed',

                'transports' => [
                    'async_priority_high' => [
                        'dsn' => '%env(MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_DSN)%',
                        'failure_transport' => 'failed'
                    ],
                    // since no failed transport is configured, the one used will be
                    // the global failure_transport set 
                    'async_priority_low' => [
                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=async_priority_low',
                    ],
                    'failed' => [
                        'dsn' => 'doctrine://default?queue_name=failed',
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ]);

> The transport with a ``failure_transport`` configuration defined, will override the global ``failure_transport``.

Reviewer 2: We can maybe delete this sentence, as i've proposed the same thing above. And, we can make the code block "speak for itself" with good comments there, as you have done already :)

If there is no ``failure_transport`` defined globally or on the transport level, the messages
will be discarded after the number of retries.

> The failed commands have an optional option `--transport`` to specify the ``failure_transport`` configured at the transport level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The failed commands have an optional option `--transport`` to specify which
failure transport to read from:
```

.. code-block:: terminal

>     # see all messages in the failure transport

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # see all messages in "failure_transport" transport
```

Make sure these names - like `failure_transport` - match the final names you have in the config above.

>     $ php bin/console messenger:failed:show --transport={failure_transport}

Reviewer 2: Remove the `{` around `failure_transport` - people will think that you actually need this :)

    # see details about a specific failure

>     $ php bin/console messenger:failed:show 20 --transport={failure_transport} -vv

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this. You can deduce how it would work, and the command output itself will help you.

    # view and retry messages one-by-one

>     $ php bin/console messenger:failed:retry -vv

Reviewer 2: We also don't need this one

>     # retry specific messages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # retry specific messages from "failure_transport"
```

    $ php bin/console messenger:failed:retry 20 30 --transport={failure_transport} --force

>     # remove a message without retrying it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # remove a message without retrying it from "failure_transport"
```

    $ php bin/console messenger:failed:remove 20 --transport={failure_transport}

    # remove messages without retrying them and show each message before removing it

>     $ php bin/console messenger:failed:remove 20 30 --transport={failure_transport} --show-messages

Reviewer 2: Remove this last example
